research_paper_implementation/README.md, before:

# Research Paper Implementation

This folder contains the implementation of methodologies specifically described in the research paper "A Scalable API Framework for Medical Imaging AI: Enabling Tumor Detection and Measurement for Healthcare Applications".

## Methodology Overview

Based on the research paper, this implementation follows these specific approaches:

### 1. Dataset Selection
- **BRATS 2021**: Brain MRI dataset with 1,251 cases
- **LIDC-IDRI**: Lung CT dataset with 1,018 cases  
- **Medical Segmentation Decathlon**: Multi-organ dataset

### 2. Data Preprocessing
- DICOM Standardization with consistent metadata
- Z-score intensity normalization
- Spatial resampling (1×1×1 mm³ for brain MRI, 0.5×0.5×1.0 mm³ for lung CT)
- Automated quality control

### 3. Model Architecture Selection
- **U-Net Variants**: Standard U-Net, 3D U-Net, Attention U-Net
- **nnU-Net**: Self-configuring framework
- **Mask R-CNN**: For detection tasks
- **Vision Transformers**: Transformer-based architectures

### 4. Training Strategy
- Combined Dice loss and cross-entropy loss
- AdamW optimizer with learning rate scheduling
- Data augmentation (rotations, flips, elastic deformations, intensity variations)
- 5-fold cross-validation with stratified sampling

### 5. Evaluation Metrics
- **Segmentation**: Dice coefficient, Jaccard index, Hausdorff distance
- **Detection**: Precision, recall, F1-score, average precision
- **Clinical**: Volume estimation accuracy, measurement reproducibility
- **System**: API response time, throughput, resource utilization

## Comparison with Roadmap Approach

This implementation will be compared against the 9-phase roadmap approach to evaluate:

1. **Performance Differences**: Model accuracy and system performance
2. **Implementation Complexity**: Development time and resource requirements
3. **Scalability**: System scalability and resource utilization
4. **Compliance**: Regulatory compliance implementation
5. **Maintainability**: Code quality and system maintainability

## File Structure

```
research_paper_implementation/
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── config/
│   ├── research_paper_config.json
│   └── model_configs.json
├── data/
│   ├── preprocessing.py
│   ├── dataset_loader.py
│   └── quality_control.py
├── models/
│   ├── unet_variants.py
│   ├── nnunet_implementation.py
│   ├── mask_rcnn_medical.py
│   └── vision_transformer_medical.py
├── training/
│   ├── research_paper_trainer.py
│   ├── loss_functions.py
│   └── augmentation_strategies.py
├── evaluation/
│   ├── research_metrics.py
│   ├── clinical_validation.py
│   └── system_metrics.py
├── api/
│   ├── research_api.py
│   └── torchserve_integration.py
├── scripts/
│   ├── train_research_models.py
│   ├── evaluate_research_models.py
│   └── compare_methodologies.py
└── results/
    ├── research_paper_results/
    └── comparison_analysis/
```

## Usage

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Train Models**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/train_research_models.py --dataset brats2021 --model unet_3d
   ```

3. **Evaluate Performance**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/evaluate_research_models.py --model_path checkpoints/best_model.pth
   ```

4. **Compare Methodologies**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/compare_methodologies.py --roadmap_results ../results/ --research_results results/
   ```

## Expected Outcomes

This implementation will provide:
- Direct comparison between research paper methodology and 9-phase roadmap
- Performance benchmarks for both approaches
- Analysis of trade-offs between different methodologies
- Recommendations for optimal implementation strategies

Commit message:

Fix Streamlit dashboard and API integration
- Fixed API endpoint mismatches (404 errors)
- Updated Streamlit dashboard to match API response structure
- Fixed formatting errors for processing_time and confidence
- Added proper error handling and data validation
- Created working demo results with correct file extensions
- Added minimal dashboard for testing
- Organized Python scripts into logical folders
- Updated research paper with audit corrections
- Added comprehensive training visualizations
- Fixed all UI connection issues

Dashboard now fully functional with API integration

research_paper_implementation/README.md, after:

# Research Paper Implementation

This folder contains the implementation of methodologies specifically described in the research paper "A Scalable API Framework for Medical Imaging AI: Enabling Tumor Detection and Measurement for Healthcare Applications".

## Methodology Overview

Based on the research paper, this implementation follows these specific approaches:

### 1. Dataset Selection
- **BRATS 2021**: Brain MRI dataset with 1,251 cases (referenced for methodology development)
- **LIDC-IDRI**: Lung CT dataset with 1,018 cases (referenced for methodology development)
- **Medical Segmentation Decathlon**: Multi-organ dataset (referenced for methodology development)

**Note**: These datasets are referenced for methodology development but were not used in actual training experiments due to data access limitations. The implementation focuses on MedMNIST datasets for actual training.

### 2. Data Preprocessing
- DICOM Standardization with consistent metadata
- Z-score intensity normalization
- Spatial resampling (1×1×1 mm³ for brain MRI, 0.5×0.5×1.0 mm³ for lung CT)
- Automated quality control

### 3. Model Architecture Selection
- **U-Net Variants**: Standard U-Net, 3D U-Net, Attention U-Net
- **nnU-Net**: Self-configuring framework
- **Mask R-CNN**: For detection tasks
- **Vision Transformers**: Transformer-based architectures

### 4. Training Strategy
- Combined Dice loss and cross-entropy loss
- AdamW optimizer with learning rate scheduling
- Data augmentation (rotations, flips, elastic deformations, intensity variations)
- 5-fold cross-validation with stratified sampling

### 5. Evaluation Metrics
- **Segmentation**: Dice coefficient, Jaccard index, Hausdorff distance
- **Detection**: Precision, recall, F1-score, average precision
- **Clinical**: Volume estimation accuracy, measurement reproducibility
- **System**: API response time, throughput, resource utilization

## Comparison with Roadmap Approach

This implementation will be compared against the 9-phase roadmap approach to evaluate:

1. **Performance Differences**: Model accuracy and system performance
2. **Implementation Complexity**: Development time and resource requirements
3. **Scalability**: System scalability and resource utilization
4. **Compliance**: Regulatory compliance implementation
5. **Maintainability**: Code quality and system maintainability

## File Structure

```
research_paper_implementation/
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── config/
│   ├── research_paper_config.json
│   └── model_configs.json
├── data/
│   ├── preprocessing.py
│   ├── dataset_loader.py
│   └── quality_control.py
├── models/
│   ├── unet_variants.py
│   ├── nnunet_implementation.py
│   ├── mask_rcnn_medical.py
│   └── vision_transformer_medical.py
├── training/
│   ├── research_paper_trainer.py
│   ├── loss_functions.py
│   └── augmentation_strategies.py
├── evaluation/
│   ├── research_metrics.py
│   ├── clinical_validation.py
│   └── system_metrics.py
├── api/
│   ├── research_api.py
│   └── torchserve_integration.py
├── scripts/
│   ├── train_research_models.py
│   ├── evaluate_research_models.py
│   └── compare_methodologies.py
└── results/
    ├── research_paper_results/
    └── comparison_analysis/
```

## Usage

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Train Models**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/train_research_models.py --dataset brats2021 --model unet_3d
   ```

3. **Evaluate Performance**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/evaluate_research_models.py --model_path checkpoints/best_model.pth
   ```

4. **Compare Methodologies**:
   ```bash
   python scripts/compare_methodologies.py --roadmap_results ../results/ --research_results results/
   ```

## Expected Outcomes

This implementation will provide:
- Direct comparison between research paper methodology and 9-phase roadmap
- Performance benchmarks for both approaches
- Analysis of trade-offs between different methodologies
- Recommendations for optimal implementation strategies
